docs: added 2.8 release English version blog (#433)
iresty/iresty.github.io: website/blog/2021-07-28-release-apache-apisix-2.8-en.md

---
title: "Release Apache APISIX 2.8.0"
author: Serendipity96
authorURL: "https://github.com/Serendipity96"
authorImageURL: "https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23514812?v=4"
---
> [@Serendipity96](https://github.com/Serendipity96), Apache APISIX contributor from [Shenzhen Zhiliu Technology Co.](https://www.apiseven.com/)
>
<!--truncate-->

> Apache APISIX version 2.8 is released! 🎉 This version has 30+ developers participated, more than 100 PRs had been submitted, and supports **1 new feature, 1 new experience, 2 new plugins, and 2 new ways to develop**. Read and learn about the new features in version 2.8!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache APISIX version 2.8 is released! 🎉 This version saw 30+ contributors and 100+ PR submissions, resulting in **1 new feature, 1 new experience, 2 new plugins, and 2 new ways to develop**. Read and learn about the new features in version 2.8!
```

👇👇👇

## Release Notes

### New feature: Independent Keepalive connection pool

> Starting with [version 2.7](https://apisix.apache.org/blog/2021/06/29/release-apache-apisix-2.7), we have added Apache APISIX's own patches and the Nginx C module to enhance the native Nginx, allowing dynamic setup of increasing number of Nginx configurations. In the latest release, Apache APISIX already supports the configuration of independent Keepalive connection pools at the Upstream level.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: 
1. In the latest release -> in version 2.8
2. already supports --> supports

The following features are currently included:

- Dynamically set mTLS
- Dynamically set client_max_body_size

> - Upstream keepalive （2.8 new feature）

Reviewer 2: keepalive --> Keepalive ? I see in line 18, the K is capitalized.

Author: Yes, K need to Capitalize

- gzip （2.8 new Plug-in）

In future releases, we will continue to allow the following Nginx configurations to be set dynamically:

> - real_ip

Reviewer 3: Also, support the hyperlink?

* http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html (indeed there is no `real_ip` directive in Nginx)
* http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_max_temp_file_size

Author: I think we should add the hyperlink for APISIX when APISIX supports the features. What do you think?

Reviewer 3: Fair enough.

                "number": 32,
                "size": 4096
            },
            "types": [
                "text/html"
            ],
            "comp_level": 1,
            "vary": false
        }
    }
}
```

### New plug-in: ua-restriction

The `ua-restriction` plugin is used to check if the User-Agent is in the black and white list, which is a very common requirement and can be enabled by way of a plugin.

An example of `ua-restriction` configuration:

```JSON
{
    "plugins": {
        "ua-restriction": {
            "denylist": [
                "my-bot1",
                "(Baiduspider)/(\\d+)\\.(\\d+)"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### New way to develop: Support for executing specific logic by plug-ins

Based on Apache APISIX architecture, many features are implemented by plug-ins. Starting from version 2.8, **Apache APISIX supports executing specific logic by plug-ins after selecting an upstream node.**

Define the following method in the plug-in:

```Lua
function _M.balancer(conf, ctx)
    core.log.notice("IP: ", ctx.balancer_ip, ", Port: ", ctx.balancer_port)
end
```

In this example, the log will output the IP and Port of the upstream.

> **Which scenario will use the above method?**

Reviewer 2: scenario does not use the method.
Suggestion: --> Which scenario does the above method apply to?

2. Before each retry

For the best performance, the above method first runs in the access phase of OpenResty (APISIX actually selects the upstream node in the access phase) and the method does not overlap with the OpenResty phase of the same name.

### New way to develop: Support for custom balancer

In version 2.8, users can customize the balancer. **The balancer is loading with minimum number of connections, polling, consistency hash, etc.**

Although Apache APISIX already provides a set of balancers, users may need to use balancers that are closely related to the business, such as: need to consider the server room, availability zone, etc. Supporting for custom balancer, users can develop their own balancer and load it via `require("apisix.balancer.your_balancer")`.

Usually a custom balancer requires node to provide data which is from other than the host/port, you can put data in the metadata, for example:

```JSON
{
    "nodes": [
        { "host": "0.0.0.0", "port": 1980, "weight": 1, "metadata": {"b": 1} }
    ]
}
```

## Download

Download Apache APISIX 2.8.0

- Source code: please visit [download page](https://apisix.apache.org/downloads/)

> - Binary installation package: please visit [Installation Guide](https://apisix.apache.org/zh/docs/apisix/how-to-build/)

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest  change `https://apisix.apache.org/zh/docs/apisix/how-to-build/` to `https://apisix.apache.org/docs/apisix/how-to-build/`, since this is an English doc, it should lead to another page in English as well.

Author: thanks
